# NSDUH-complex-sample-analysis-tutorial
The purpose of this tutorial is to provide brief introduction to conducting design-based analysis in `R` of data arising from a complex sample survey design. 

We will be using data from the **National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH)**. NSDUH is a repeated cross-sectional household survey distributed annually to a sample of non-institutionalized residents of the United States. Its primary aim is to monitor drug and alcohol use by providing nationally-representative estimates of substance use behaviors, mental health status, and correlates of these health outcomes/behaviors. Additional information on NSDUH can be found [here](https://nsduhweb.rti.org/respweb/about_nsduh.html).

To improve estimate precision and reduce overall survey costs, households (and specific individuals within households) who participate in NSDUH are selected through a complex set of **cluster and stratified sampling** procedures. Certain population subgroups (including younger people, Hispanic people, Black/African-American people) are also **oversampled relative to their general population size** to produce more reliable estimates (i.e., through standard error reduction). Thus, these procedures generate a sample in which there is **unequal probability of selection** across all sampling units, and this violates the simple random sample assumption common across statistical procedures. 

**In order to generate accurate national estimates (e.g., means, standard errors) from complex sample survey data, we have to conduct design-based analysis** (i.e., analysis that adjusts for unequal probability of selection). For more information on NSDUH sample design can be found [here](https://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/reports/rpt34664/NSDUHmrbSampleDesign2019.pdf) in the NSDUH 2019 Sample Design Report.
